Add an explanation page for job types (#271)
bacalhau-project/docs.bacalhau.org: docs/topic-guides/job-types.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Job types'
sidebar_position: 0
title: 'Job types'
description: The different job types available in Bacalhau
---

Bacalhau has recently introduced different job types in v1.1,
providing more control and flexibility over the orchestration and scheduling of those jobs - depending on their type.

> One thing that each job has in common is that Bacalhau provides common functionality for them including:

Reviewer: The word common is repeated twice in this sentence
```suggestion
Despite the differences in job types, all jobs benefit from core functionalities provided by Bacalhau, including:```

1. **Node selection** - the appropriate nodes are selected based on several criteria, including resource availability, priority and feedback from the nodes.

> 2. **Task monitoring** - tasks are monitored to ensure they complete, and that they stay in a healthy state.  

Reviewer: While `Task` is the more accurate term, it might be confusing for readers and should be acceptable to just say Job monitoring:
```suggestion
2. **Job monitoring** - jobs are monitored to ensure they complete, and that they stay in a healthy state.  
```

3. **Retries** - within limits, Bacalhau will retry certain jobs a set number of times should it fail to complete successfully when requested.

## Batch Jobs

> Batch jobs are typically executed on demand and they operate on a designated number of Bacalhau nodes.  It is expected that batch jobs perform a single discrete task before completing. 

Reviewer: Please ignore or improve my suggestions if they don't make sense. 
In this one, I didn't like using "typically" or "expected" in documenting the job types, except when sharing possible examples

```suggestion
Batch jobs are executed on demand, running on a specified number of Bacalhau nodes. These jobs either run until completion or reach a timeout. They are designed to carry out a single, discrete task before finishing.
```

Author: Fixed in 21f6dba3

Suggestions were good, tweaked a few though.

> Ideal for intermittent yet intensive data dives, for instance performing comp;utation over large datasets before publishing the response.  This approach eliminates the continuous processing overhead, focusing on specific, in-depth investigations and computation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ideal for intermittent yet intensive data dives, for instance performing computation over large datasets before publishing the response.  This approach eliminates the continuous processing overhead, focusing on specific, in-depth investigations and computation.
```

Author: Fixed in 21f6dba3

## Daemon Jobs

Daemon jobs run continuously on all nodes that meet the criteria given in the job specification. Should any new compute nodes join the cluster after the job was started, and should they meet the criteria, the job will be scheduled to run on that node too. 

A good application of daemon jobs is to handle continuously generated data on every compute node.  This might be from edge devices like sensors, or cameras, or from logs where they are generated. The data can then be aggregated and compressed them before sending it onwards.  For logs, the aggregated data can be relayed at regular intervals to platforms like Kafka or Kinesis, or directly to other logging services with edge devices potentially delivering results via MQTT. 

## Ops Jobs

> Similar to batch jobs, ops jobs have a broader reach. They are executed on all nodes that align with the job specification, but otherwise behave like batch jobs.

Reviewer: does it make sense to put Ops Jobs right under Batch Jobs?

Author: We can, I was ordering alphabetically but by type makes just as much sense.

Author: Fixed in 21f6dba3

Ops jobs are perfect for urgent investigations, granting direct access to logs on host machines, where previously you may have had to wait for the logs to arrive at a central locartion before being able to query them. They can also be used for delivering configuration files for other systems should you wish to deploy an update to many machines at once. 

## Service Jobs

> These jobs run like daemon jobs but only on a specified number of nodes. The orchestrator in Bacalhau selects the optimal nodes to run the job, ensuring its health and performance.

Reviewer: it might be confusing to compare service jobs with daemon jobs. Might be easier to just say something like:
```suggestion
Service jobs run continuously on a specified number of nodes that meet the criteria given in the job specification. Bacalhau's orchestrator selects the optimal nodes to run the job, and continuously monitor its health, performance, and reschedule on other nodes if required 
```

Author: Fixed in 21f6dba3

> Service jobs can be used for similar tasks to Daemon jobs, but are used for occasions where it does not need to be run on every single machine, and where optimal node selection is preferred. This can be used for limited scale long-running jobs to provide services to other jobs, such as mail-delivery, or a KV store for job-specific state.

Reviewer: again I would avoid the comparison with daemon jobs. Good applications include long running consumers from streaming or queueing services, or real-time event listeners. I am not sure what you mean with the KV store as our jobs are still stateless

Author: I think I mis-understood and thought services were jobs potentially providing services to other jobs running on that node, my bad.  I've gone with a much simpler description in line with what you suggested.
